
"Try a thing you haven't done three times. 
Once, to get over the fear of doing it. 
Twice, to learn how to do it. 
And a third time to figure out whether you like it or not."


solipsism ("SAH-lep-sihz-em") n.
origin: from the Latin "solus", meaning alone, and "ipse", meaning
self

1. The theory that the self is the only thing that can be known and is
the only reality.*

"Take a look at technotopia for a moment. Each organism will have its
own VR (virtual reality, ed.) generator, which will be on all the
time. Each organism will be able to choose whatever event-scene it
(gender, even sex, might be selected at whim) wanted to be in,
whatever scenario it wanted to participate in. Not to worry about

solipsism. Organisms might share event-scenes (virtually, of
course): they would interact with each other through cyber-space,
each responding to the other who would be virtually present in each
one's scene. Each would dwell in private fantasy at whim."

--Arthur Kroker and Michael A. Weinstein, "The Political Economy Of
Virtual Reality: Pan-Capitalism"

also: solipsistic (adj.)

"At the same time, as the press has become more sophisticated, or
perhaps more solipsistic, it has begun to study not only the
workings of the campaigns but also the press coverage of them --
which leads to articles, like this one, that include coverage of the
coverage of the campaign about a campaign."**

--James Bennet, "The New Campaign Story: Consultants Steal
Spotlight", in the New York Times


editors' note:

*"This is the belief that reality exists only for one's self,
that the self is the only existent, and primacy of consciousness
reigns. A solipsist tries to escape the responsibility of thinking
about other people by postulating that no other people exist, and if he
perceives them, it must be a figment of his imagination, because surely
everything he perceives is just "his imagination." Solipsism advocates
primacy of consciousness, subjectivism, and has no ethical system."

From "Other Philosophies A to Z" by J. WIll Pierce.
Publish Date: 01/20/2011 
